and we are live
uh welcome to really
no way don't do that to me
we are recording i'm not stopping this
call
welcome to googie anywhere browsers
directly my weekly call
for the 28th of july i believe
2020. nice try jessica
nice sorry did you hit the cancel button
no if you're typing as uh security
starts sometimes it takes the key
and then goes to eyes to cancel yeah
it happens fairly often unfortunately
all right let's see if i'm able to do
some advanced stuff like sharing my
screen
and telling people about um
cleaning services why not
um all right this is like a quick update
we got a bit refreshed and updated
uh api spec it's in the face where
people
are some pinning services are actively
start like actively started implementing
this api
uh so the spec is at the link i've
posted in the notes uh there's like a
little bit more context on the pin life
cycle
and overall the way we present api
it's probably much better than it was
before you're now able to
through your traverse data structures
for example like
here if you query for multiple results
you can see that there's like
array of results and each object is pin
status object and then you got a pin
object here with the pcid that's
actually pinned so it should be easier
to
learn by exploration using this and
uh just to quickly note
uh we started gathering some feedback
from
pinning services which will be
implementing this
and there are two open pull requests um
to make changes to the api
one is to add timestamp with
the moment
the pin request enters the pinning
service
and that's important for multiple
reasons one it
make it easier for users to
find pins which are recent and
more importantly it makes pagination
um more deterministic now when
results are sorted by the creation date
it's more it's easier to
traverse a huge pin sets with thousands
of pins without skipping anything
also we remove the manual
offset parameter which was in the place
of time-based parameters so
if anyone is interested on this change
please provide feedback on the pr we
probably will merge it
around wednesday unless there are like
some concerns which needs to be
addressed
and the second open issue is simplifying
access token spec so so far we supported
both http header and
query parameter and this pull request
simplifies the
that and we will only have http header
uh so those are two pending changes uh
they don't really change much how the
api works but are
directly addressing feedback we've got
so far from implementers
um yeah so that's on the
on the api spec site work on
the go ipfs site to implement client for
this
started we are in the planning phase
probably we'll
have some updates next time
i mentioned this
i think that's it
any questions regarding cleaning
services
i don't think so all right uh i
kept my screen sharing because uh
there's um a bounty
which is pretty pretty cool i wanted to
mention that
those improvements are coming
uh so we got a contribution with uh
directory
page the directory listing page
improvements and long story short
uh the improvements are
what sorry i'll paste them in
okay yeah so there are the highlights
yeah
uh yep so uh the breadcrumbs are now
clickable uh you can jump to the
arbitrary level of the path
and there's a column with c ids here
uh i believe that's it i wanted to also
file sizes are in the header oh yeah
yeah yeah directory file sizes are in
the header so
and a lot of improvements happen behind
the scenes just jessica
made it much less painful to uh
maintain this module which is
responsible for
rendering uh directory listing i i
looked at it and we may be able to
improve it even further but i did not
want to like
totally uh entire like block that the
bounty
yeah probably after that bounty is
merged
we may move away from the git sub module
which is like right now that's just like
sub module in go ipfs repo which
it's no longer necessary it was like
necessary
due to like legacy reasons but now we
could
make it just a regular go module which
should make
things easier for everyone yeah so
that's coming to probably i want to
squeeze that into
go ipfs 0.7 uh hopefully
in uh both guys you first and iphone's
desktop at some point
that also includes uh like the favicon
and stuff which
did not make it into go ipfs so you're
actually getting the previous
generation of changes if we can get that
in as well yeah
yeah yeah the problem is that's the
problem with sub module it's
unless someone is uh bumping the sub
module and committing that and after
the committing that regenerates uh like
the
binary data for directory listing the
change will not be populated
so that's super painful and easy to yeah
and i had made
i had made the pr but again it's like do
we really want to release a whole new
version of go ipfs just for that
as well so yeah
cool fun times will land at some point
hopefully
um yeah directly do you want to talk
about
uh ipf's pair of improvements
yeah um so alex landed a patch to fix
a buffering problem that was happening
in the js ipfs
uh so now that is there you can update
stuff
on the web ui to take advantage of it
but
it ended up being a cascade of things
that need to happen
um so right now i have a pull request
to rip out the redux bundle ips redux
bundle
that comes with its own ipvs which is
also old and
honestly doesn't really do does much so
this pull request removes that and
starts using the ipfs provider instead
however i'm having some problems with
testing and i'm not
exactly sure what's going on there yet
uh i'll once i'll figure out hopefully
we can land this
once this is in uh then i'll actually
upgrade
ipfs to the new one but there's a little
bit of work to be done
in terms of i think it's on an older
version with a different
ipfs api so every place we use ips needs
to update it
be updated to use a new api once that's
done as well
then i can update the pull request that
i wrote originally to
do the web ui patch to do the uploading
because there's also buffering happening
in the web ui so we'll have to remove
that too
and now we'll go to new ipfs um once
that is done
uh i'll write a patch for the http
client
because right now it uses a fetch api
that doesn't
provide any progress upgrades updates at
all
so i'll be switching that to xml http
requests which does have a progress
events and so once that is done then we
can
update web ui to integrate source events
so we can render the progress bar on
file uploads
the reason those are separate tasks so
we can like parallelize hopefully some
of it
you mentioned the problems with tests
were those related to that library ky
or something else yeah so i'm not sure
oh
i don't even know where it's coming from
yeah like the context is that
we used ky at some point in http client
and
ngsipfs but it turned out
there it was like two bleeding edge
and and we i think we don't no longer
use it however web ui
may be using the older version of
libraries which are still impacted by
that problem
uh okay yeah i was trying to avoid uh
updating
ipfs without changing the api maybe i
can combine those two patches into one
yeah yeah i think like they don't spend
time on
anything ky related because it was like
removed and fixed
in the latest versions of uh http client
or
core api so yeah well maybe then one of
you can
review the pull request that is uh
linked in the notes
and if you can land it without that i i
can also i guess
do another patch on top of it that will
upgrade ipfs so hopefully at least that
way we can test it
we don't have a ci test running in the
web ui is that
never was the case or is that we should
have like end-to-end tests for each
screen
uh i noticed that my pull request didn't
run
anything so maybe we should enable it
somewhere
okay uh maybe there's some other reason
but i'm not sure
what's going on yet okay take a look
um
cool yeah that's all on my own
yeah uh this endeavor to upgrade to the
latest
js api like programmatic js api which um
which you will be uh doing in web ui um
actually
i've hit a similar problem with
companion which is using the old one
and uh there's another issue on the
agenda which is uh sekaio deprecation
uh i believe like in go ipfs 0.7 it will
be either like
removed or disabled by default um
and the problem is uh we use
uh and like in brave you can opt in
to embed js ipfs and that js ipfs has
access to tcp
sockets and due to that fact uh it
actually can connect to appears which
announced themselves uh on the dht so we
enable delegated
uh peer and content routing modules
from the p2p um okay
and long story short sorry so brave
notes can be the
delegated notes is that what you said no
no it's like the brave uh
it's using yeah a brave is using our uh
public delegated notes which are also
preload nodes
uh for like delegated dht effectively
okay and the problem is uh that relies
on a browser node being connected to
delegate node
the moment it executes that call and
uh right now those connections are
handled
over secaio i believe okay so that may
be a problem when
um and and also when
it tries to connect to remote peer that
appear is probably go ipfs
so when go ipfs 0.7 ships that means
uh js ipfs nodes which are older
like the one in brave won't be able to
connect to go ipfs uh
so that's just uh i mentioned it because
the plan is to
ship go ipfs 0.7 uh like around the end
of august
uh and wish we we should like finish
this migration
uh before that happens uh to avoid that
sorry i mean so which migration uh
just general migration of um
embedded js ipfs in brave it's a part of
companion
there's like open pr i only mention it
in case someone is running
uh like go ipfs from
master or using the release candidate
and they
experience problems uh with that uh work
with connecting to that
that's why it's because sakaio is no
longer a thing
uh js ip like entire jsr system jsl p2p
is switching to noise i believe
and and there's a discussion about like
uh
enabling nose uh noise in uh
older versions but the threshold of
up to which all the version is possible
is the moment we switch to this new
api so uh you need to use this new
uh api where there are like asking
iterators and stuff
uh to leverage noise uh that so far
there are no plans to backboard
uh it to the older versions
so that's sort of like a hard incentive
to
upgrade i'd say but that's like a
breaking change in
if someone is using a js ipfs and rely
some connectivity with go nodes
so uh just to be make sure that i fully
understand this is remark
but it there's nothing on the web ui
that we need to do to
not run into that problem right i
believe
yeah i believe it's only related to
companion uh and specifically to
companion in brave
um i looked all over like all the other
places in our gui applications and and
stuck and we don't like it
we are not impacted that's the only like
overlap with this problem
got it okay thank you
cool next one uh
sounds like someone wants to demo navbar
rework
how does that sound i don't i don't have
it on my local
you want to give me a minute i'll bring
it watch it
but um i don't have it running right now
i can walk you through the
screenshots on the ps4 that's fine okay
i will do that
oh yeah always looks exactly the same
with the screen all right yep
so 14 clicks later
all right can you can you see that yeah
okay cool um so basically what this is
doing
is this started out
is needing to give us somewhere to
launch the welcome screen from and then
after conversations i believe with
raphael a little while ago we talked
about
the expand collapse functionality and
the nav are just like really being kind
of pointless
so what this pr does is really
streamlines the nav bar
at both widths and also gives us an
affordance something that we can click
on
to launch the welcome screen content
that we want to handle in 1463 which
will be instrumental to onboarding new
users
so this is what it looks like at desktop
with
basically it brings the text underneath
uh gives adds a little bit of vertical
space but not a whole whole lot
um just tightens up the whole thing
overall
this cube is no longer clickable to
expand
collapse the um that nav bar but it does
take you to the welcome screen which
right now you never ever see except on
first launch
um this is how it looks on mobile the
nice thing about mobile
is this actually gives us less
side-by-side scroll and narrow widths
in that menu um
raphael i think you're okay with it lyle
i think you've had a quick look
um but i would appreciate a final review
for you
before i make it real
uh i tested it on my setup which is
useful because i
have a non-standard phone setup so
yeah okay and it looks fine
so that's good all right uh
the only the nuance is that um
i'm not sure if i commented it or was
about to comment in a review but uh
the welcome screen you mentioned yes uh
i realized you can
get i think you can get to that screen
by clicking the
top right corner there's this like
connection yeah
the up down yeah yeah yeah but i
think it's fine it's even like better
because
uh intuitively when you click on the
the cube you want to sort of like
maybe switch to different cube items
it's also consistent with what we're
doing in
companion um i just want to
i want to get started on that welcome
screen because i'm not
entirely sure what needs to go in there
at this point and then also
we'll want to make changes some of that
content appears in other locations like
if you have
on the files page when you don't have
any files um
so that's that's probably going to take
a little bit longer than i would think
so
yeah the sort of like the
the main use so far like the the origin
of that screen was
uh what happens when you uh are if a
offline state
or when your node suddenly goes offline
uh that screen that welcome page
yep connection problem page yep
yep it's important to keep that yeah
and it's and it's sort of strange
because you end up in that situation
where it's like
you know do you of course requests
enabled and then over on the right-hand
side it's like what is ipfs and so
that's
kind of some mixed messaging so i want
to pull apart where are
all of those and i believe there's those
are sort of componentized to agree a
degree and i want to see where all of
those bits appear
elsewhere in the app and when yeah
oh speaking about components uh just
piggybacking back to
uh what directly mentioned that parts of
web ui needs to be refactored to the new
api
uh ipv ipld explorer is a separate
component it's a separate npm dependency
uh and i believe it's using the old api
i'm not sure
if yeah if the dog api actually changed
so that's yeah like yet another layer of
work but
uh we can discuss that separately i
guess
oh that means i have to do stuff there
too i'm
i feel the explorer is a nesting doll
yeah that's why no one wanted to touch
this
because it's like never ending story
well i didn't want to touch the desert i
just want to make the episode
no like we recently were successful with
releasing new ipld explorer so i i'm
able to like help
uh yeah uh
is there a reason it needs to be a
separate
like repository and everything like
every time we have to do this
threading through the packages it
becomes uh
larger universe than it needs to be
actually the idea was folks
might be embedding it into other
contributor or third party project
i don't know what the usage actually is
though so that was like an
initial thinking but later we realized
the problem we
are you just mentioned and uh we stopped
at ipld explorer so i feel the explorer
is useful on its own there's like
explore that ipl
website and it's using the same
component so the same component is
used on that website and inside of web
ui
but that's the only component which we
actually extracted to a separate
package uh mostly because we realized oh
that's actually introduces a lot of
overheads so we
maybe something like what js ips does
with multiple packages in one repo could
be helpful at least that you can write a
pull request and it changes all of them
and you don't have to like coordinate
multiple pieces uh i think that's what
creates a coordination issue because
first this needs to go in before you can
pull it in here and then like
you end up stacking things up but if
it's in one place then you can send them
even if they are released there's
separate packages
yeah uh it honestly it makes sense to
think about this maybe like mid-term
long term uh because we have like
is one thing we also got this cid uh
that ipfs io website which is separate
uh we got
like a dag or files one which is not
advertised much
but those things could be part of web ui
um
like one big repo they could be also
separate websites but having something
like uh like js ipfs would be much
easier like much better experience than
right now
uh and there's this problem we have
right now especially with
those things which require like which
operate on lower level
uh primitives like cids or multihashes
or multicodex
when we add something new the time
it takes to bubble up to that end
product that website or that component
uh is payfully long and you need to make
sure it's bubbled up to
all of them so if we had like one
central place
it would remove the friction oh yeah
because you might wind up with a two
different versions i guess
and yeah yeah we and it was extremely
problematic in case of
uh ipld explorer because you could have
on the website it's pounding its own
embedded.js ipfs
and that could be a different version of
api than the one
in web ui where you have http client
yeah something to think about
cool um so we'll review the navbar
promise can i ask you about the number
is a is it supposed
to scroll in the mobile the
top one or is it yeah it's a left right
scroll there's not
a more elegant way of doing that without
ripping it out entirely which
is on my longer term agenda but um but
at least there's
far less side-by-side scroll than there
was
i i play with it on the firefox for
android and it looks better than before
yeah yeah another question is how do you
actually use
uh webbian mobile is that's a great
question
you don't you can't connect to anything
can you uh you can
connect to your sorry
go on raphael no i mean i think the
electrical already did it once
so he just opened web ui on the browser
and connected to his
internal ip on this node on this
computer
so since you're in the same router you
can ask
access if you allow the origin to
but won't it like wouldn't it prevent
you from https to http so like as a
mixed content it should be
blocking out gas
that i don't know well if you load it
from
that remote uh origin that origin is uh
oh from that gateway okay okay yeah yeah
uh but uh honestly there there are uh
for android there are uh
distributions of ipfs i think it one is
called suite ipfs another one is like
ipfs droid
and you are effectively running go ipfs
on your phone and then you are on the
local host
so you just open that local host page um
that's what i was using for
um i was using
that local node with firefox for android
which was running
uh regular extension and companion was
connecting to
uh to the note on my phone and that
worked
and just uh raphael yeah good point
about hamburger menu or some similar
thing
um this is sort of like trend this fine
line because we've got
we have a bunch of concept sketches for
desktop and web ui in general that at
this point are about a year old that
came
from eric ronnie um which
need to be like a lot of stuff has
changed since then and our understanding
of
we're trying to solve for has changed
since then there's a lot of really good
kernels of truth in there
and that is on at least my longer term
agenda to try
to unify some of that into a more
complete design tear down this is more
get things into a good really usable
state
before pinning services
but in an ideal world yeah i would love
to spend q4
doing a full teardown in this ui we
shall see what the future holds
cool um
pinning settings page almost complete
i've been told
yeah so i've merged everything to epic
slash pinning integration
and we already have all the models for
adding new integrations and custom
integrations and showing the
integrations
what we need to do now is uh the screen
for
editing that integration and also the
pop-up for deleting the integration
i'm not entirely sure if we have the
edit integration
screen do we jessica
i think we do but the edit integration
screen just brings back that modal
because it's the same thing
because it's only those three only those
three parameters that you're changing
oh yeah it's that's true i i forgot i
wanted to ask something so
we're saying that we're not storing the
secret api key
right why though we're not starting any
of that
yeah so oh this is an interesting
so is there a way to get the api back
from goipfs or should we just ask the
user to simply add it again if he
wants to edit or if we can just
partially
he did something like only the name or
yeah so here here's the thing uh what
the current security model when it comes
to
secrets in go ipfs config
and accessing that over http api is that
you can
send you can like set value
you can overwrite existing value but
once you set it
it's impossible to read it back over
http api
so that means you can like display those
like
asterisks and
if you submit a change with just like
name
uh or endpoint that will not change the
api key but the moment you change api
key that will override it
um user won't see the the api key anyway
because it would should be like
uh
so could we could we do something like i
don't know the value could be
oh my god this private key is not stored
here so
something like that so it just goes on
asterix
and if the user edits it we update
the private key as well you know what i
mean
that would be the most seamless way of
doing it for the user yeah so as long as
the user doesn't touch the private api
key
it doesn't affect him anyway if he wants
to update the private apa key he should
be able to do it as well
yeah i mean that's that's the same
that's the same mental pattern that we
experience every single time we go to a
config page for service for which we
don't actually remember
our passwords for so we don't even run
our mouse over the password box with its
little dots in it so i mean i think
that's would be completely acceptable
yeah like when user starts editing the
password
just like it's empty blocks yeah yeah
yeah yeah so that's like a low level
concern
um i still we still don't have a good
picture of
how exact mappings will look like um
but uh yeah so hopefully next time we
will see something all right thanks
and yeah and then the delete integration
doesn't do anything
for analysis everything is up but
it is what it is
and that's it
hopefully we'll get uh
some eta uh like this week or next week
where we when we will have the actual
api
uh and we'll make a decision uh
is it worth like creating a mock-up
service
or before that lands
because we don't want to be blocked by
that fact and we'll need something to
interact with and test
in go ipfs and jsfpfs as well
so that's something we'll figure it out
in the next week probably
um i had a question that i forgot to ask
uh
how well is web ui tested should i be
worried
uh in terms of when i updated new ipfs
api should i like go and try to
break it or is test supposedly gonna
catch that
i'm pretty sure the tests are
we got like a canary test for each
screen
so on for the status screen uh
we expect the peer id to be there that
means you are able to
fetch the id information over api
same for files we try to add a file and
then confirm it's added to the listing
similarly to the peer screen and to
settings
so there's a canary test for each screen
and that test runs in actual browser we
use puppeteering and chromium
so as long as like end-to-end tests pass
i would not worry
if some tests fail it may be because
like structures changed and the test
expects something else
but if they pass it should be fine
yeah and if you have any problems with
end-to-end ping me because
i recently fixed them so i
have a fresh um right now i have the
this key w or whatever that thing is
that's
only appears in the end to end test
that we talked about earlier uh
ky slash oh yeah yeah it's possible
uh it's possible that we use uh
http client internally uh
for orchestrating notes as well
um there's this tool called ipfsd
control uh which was created by hugo and
older versions who it's possible that
all the versions depend on
http client which used ky
uh so that's why you see that
maybe that's if we upgrade to the latest
ipfs control d
uh the problem will go away is there
any known workarounds to that problem
like
the reason i'm asking i don't want to
make two changes in one so i could like
somehow split them
into like honestly since this is a known
issue maybe
is that yeah honestly i don't remember
but if you ask
hugo he may remember because he was like
fixing that upstream
okay
or if you can enable ci test and if it
passes at least on some machines that's
also
i think okay but right now it doesn't
work on my machine
and i don't know what happens on ci so
it's kind of
worrisome
yeah i think i could definitely can take
a look uh it's
on the is the pr with uh
removing redux bundle right
yeah i don't know why it's not running
tests but if you can get it to run i'll
take a look and if not i
will think hugo or someone yeah
cool um always yeah
um highlights uh i think we are at the
end of the agenda
so we are super efficient this week um
highlights are ipfs companion
battleships and i will
screen my screen share my screen now
this long version number uh
means a new beta release
and this new better release improves
error page for protocol handling
in firefox and it also
is the first version which opens release
notes on the update so now users
will see what's changed uh
thanks jessica for improving those
protocol handler screens
the main problem here was
when a user enters cidv 0 which is case
sensitive
all those identifiers which starts with
qm
when you enter that in the location bar
and hit enter browser vendors for slower
case
and that's a problem because the
identifier starting with qm
is case sensitive it's base 58 so now
a user gets this human readable
error page which lets them
convert cid using cid inspector or
command line
and fix it and now when we
upgrade to a new version release notes
are displayed
to tell user what's up what's new
that's it on ipv's companion oh no
we got rejected from chrome web store i
i forgot about that uh and while you
load that i will note that the
release notes are a preference so if you
don't want to get bugged by the release
notes every time you can switch that off
in the press
oh yeah totally i think i got this here
uh
yep so it's here you got this toggle
show release notes on update
if you don't want them just disable them
that's it
uh that being said you can make a
release but
if google does not accept it no one will
see that release so
like a week ago we got rejected um
with vague automated response
i suspected it was before because of
this white space but
honestly we never changed it and we had
multiple releases with
it with this so turns out
uh it was like internal
mistake on the google part um
which is a bit concerning because we've
got a browser extension and
for some reason it's suddenly taken down
the good thing is that we got a better
channel which is a separate extension
it's a separate destination id
so what i do i make a better release
if there are any change significant
changes
we can like test the review process on
the beta channel and even if it gets
taken down
our stable channel is still there so
that's how we handle that
if you like to live on the bleeding edge
install our beta channel it's fun
um i believe we had
gosh where is it is it here uh i believe
rafael had this animation
to demo yes
do you want me to screen
sure it's like a new progress bar
i had this on my macbook and i switched
to my desktop right now
so i need to open it again
sorry about that should i like
try to open it it's all right download
the opening
okay uh background here is that we
have like multiple places where we would
like to have a some sort of like a
progress indicator uh
personally i i found a way for like
companion to
this temporally display a page sort of
like a splash screen
when people try to load the content
which not which is not
on their local note and needs to be like
looked up over dht
which may take a few seconds or
sometimes a few minutes
uh so we could introduce sort of like a
loading page
uh so this animation is pretty useful
for something like that yeah
yeah so here it is people didn't like
the one with the text
i prefer the one i did text but all
right
so basically this is it could also
have a small version and a big version
so it fits
on any screen we can have it on as
a small loading screen as well and it
should work
like this or we can have it on a full
page
oops and it should also work
as a full page loading so yeah
i was expecting the animations that did
shared on
internet what sorry oh
did you get a different one
yeah on the twitters yeah that
that was not me
[Laughter]
that was a meme
actually it was you yeah
i made the call for it just added my
image
you never know what will ship in the
final version
you could have a random face of one of
us okay
since i'm the one implementing it you
you never
like big avatars of ipfs contributors
and like
display random folks i think this
meeting is over
so i'm getting all your peer ids and
when i found them
on web ui i'm gonna launch your own face
on the loading animation so only you can
see it
or someone else's face like chat
roulette all right folks
i think it's we are at the end of
highlights and i don't
see any additional agenda items so i
will stop the recording now
uh thank you for watching this if you
are watching this or listening to this
uh and see you hear you in two weeks
alright bye bye